TwinCat/Mbc.Tc3.Pcs/Mbc_Tc3_Pcs/docs/CommandBase.md, before:

# CommandBase

## Basics

The CommandBase Function Block can be used to abstract a command Operation from PCS to TwinCat PLC. A Command can be executed and contain some input data from PCS to PLC and some output data from PLC to PCS. A ResultCode describes, a command was executed successfully or not.

The CommandBase should be extended by each project Commands with: `FUNCTION_BLOCK PUBLIC MyProjectCommand EXTENDS CommandBase`. There are the following multiple ways to call the POU. Only one is necessary!

1. In the derived `MyProjectCommand` function block call the basic function block by using `SUPER^();`. Without this call the command doesn't  work.
2. In the derived `MyProjectCommand` function block call the basic function block Method `Call();`. Without this call the command doesn't  work.
3. Call the instance Methode `fbMyProjectCommand.Call();` of `MyProjectCommand` function block. Without this call the command doesn't  work.

## States

The Button has the following default states represented as the `stHandshake.nResultCode` and defined in `E_CommandResultCode`. The following diagram shows in bold lines the regular state flow and in the dashed lines the possible alternative flow.
![CommandBase states Diagram](res/CommandBaseStates.svg)

> It is possible to set `stHandshake.nResultCode` to any `UINT` value for custom purpose. The result code can be set trouth the `Done` Methode.

## Methods

See in the TwinCat 3 Library Manager, in the library. Expand the Command folder and then expand also the `CommandBase` Class to show the methods. By selection of each Method it will show also the explanation.

- Call => The method is called in each cycle to execute the funktional part and the states of the command implementation.
- Init => Will be called when ``stHandshake.bExecute`` changes to ``true`` one cycle and in the same cycle.
- Task => Execute the funktional part of the command implementation in the state running. Will be executed in the same cycle ``stHandshake.bExecute`` changes to ``true`` after the ``Init`` Method. 
- Done => Will be called when ``Running`` state is done and the actual state is ``Done``.
- Cancelled => Will be called at the Cancel state when the execution is finished with the result code ``Cancelled`` or ``stHandshake.bExecute`` changes to ``false`` while ``stHandshake.bBusy`` is ```true``
- CalculateProgress => Can be used to calculate the ``stHandshake.nProgress`` and ``stHandshake.nSubTask``
- Finish => Can be use to finish the ``Task`` Execution with a ``nResultCode``. By using the ``Finish(E_CommandResultCode.Cancelled)`` or ``Finish(E_CommandResultCode.Done)`` calls, to the coresponding states methods ``Done`` and ``Cancelled`` will be called.

## Properties

See in the TwinCat 3 Library Manager, in the library. Expand the Command folder and then expand also the `CommandBase` Class to show the Properties. By selection of each Property it will show also the explanation.

- Progress => Set the Progress from everywhere in the application (Regular from CalculateProgress Method)
- SubTask => Set the SubTask Information from everywhere in the application (Regular from CalculateProgress Method)

## Communication structure to PCS

In the structure `ST_CommandBaseHandshake` is used to communicate with the PCS. The flags `bExecute` and `bBusy` has a Impact to command [state](#States).

| Symbol Name   | Datatype | PLC | PCS | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|---------------|----------|-----|-----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bExecute`    | BOOL     | RW  | RW  | Will be set to true from the PCS to start the command. When the operation is finished, the PLC will it set to false. On a long running Task, the PCS can reset to false for Abort the operation. The state will change to `Cancelled`. |
| `bBusy`       | BOOL     | RW  | R   | Is True when the command is executing.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `nResultCode` | UINT     | RW  | R   | Shows the operation result code of the commando state. Default Values see `CommandResultCode` Enum Type. It is possible to set other codes!                                                                                            |
| `nProgress`   | BYTE     | RW  | R   | Shows the optional calculated progress. The value is depend on the command implementation. (default can be 0..100%). Only necessary on long running operations.                                                                        |
| `nSubTask`    | UINT     | RW  | R   | Shows the optional state of long running Command Execution. It is possible to set it on own need.                                                                                                                                      |


### Values of CommandResultCode:

```
TYPE E_CommandResultCode :
(
	Init           := 0,
	Running        := 1,
	Done           := 2,
	Cancelled      := 3,
	StartCustom    := 100
) UINT;
END_TYPE
```

## Quick start with your first Command

**Goal:** 
Get the information when the command are executed triggered from the PCS (there is maybe a button). We wanna only a simple impulse when that happen on the output `Q`. 

First add a new POU for the Command that extends the Library Class `CommandBase`.

Basely you have a working command that does nothing important. So we add a Output Parameter `Q`. Also a `bInit` for later use.

```
FUNCTION_BLOCK PUBLIC StartCommand EXTENDS CommandBase
VAR_INPUT
END_VAR
VAR_OUTPUT	
	Q : BOOL;
END_VAR
VAR
	bInit 	: BOOL;
END_VAR
```

Then we ned to now when the Command is executed. For that we add a Method with the Name `Init` to the Class.

```
METHOD PROTECTED Init

// Init Code:
bInit := TRUE;
```

The Next step is to implement to logic Part of the command, to ged the information when the command are executing and to set the the impulse on `Q` when that happens. For this add a Method with the Name `Task` to the Class.

```
METHOD PROTECTED Task : BOOL
	
// Task Code:
// dedect task completed
IF (NOT bInit AND Q) THEN
	// Task comlete;
	Task := SUPER^.Task();;
END_IF

// set output trigger
Q := bInit;

// Reset after 1. cycle
bInit := FALSE;
```

The next step is to Declare the POU on a Global Variable List, in this example it is on `Commands`:

```
VAR_GLOBAL
	StartCommand1		: StartCommand;
END_VAR
```

In the main Program you should now call the Button in a cycle behavior.

```
Commands.StartCommand1.Call();
	
fbTofStartCommand1(
	IN := Commands.StartCommand1.Q,
	PT := T#1S);		
```

Now there is simple Start Button created.

To Test the correctness of the behavior. Set the following internal `SartCommand` flag `Commands.StartCommand1.stHandshake.bExecute` in the online Scope to True.

Commit message:

#4 - document FB_Init with a example

TwinCat/Mbc.Tc3.Pcs/Mbc_Tc3_Pcs/docs/CommandBase.md, after:

# CommandBase

## Basics

The CommandBase Function Block can be used to abstract a command Operation from PCS to TwinCat PLC. A Command can be executed and contain some input data from PCS to PLC and some output data from PLC to PCS. A ResultCode describes, a command was executed successfully or not.

The CommandBase should be extended by each project Commands with: `FUNCTION_BLOCK PUBLIC MyProjectCommand EXTENDS CommandBase`. There are the following multiple ways to call the POU. Only one is necessary!

1. In the derived `MyProjectCommand` function block call the basic function block by using `SUPER^();`. Without this call the command doesn't  work.
2. In the derived `MyProjectCommand` function block call the basic function block Method `Call();`. Without this call the command doesn't  work.
3. Call the instance Methode `fbMyProjectCommand.Call();` of `MyProjectCommand` function block. Without this call the command doesn't  work.

## States

The Button has the following default states represented as the `stHandshake.nResultCode` and defined in `E_CommandResultCode`. The following diagram shows in bold lines the regular state flow and in the dashed lines the possible alternative flow.
![CommandBase states Diagram](res/CommandBaseStates.svg)

> It is possible to set `stHandshake.nResultCode` to any `UINT` value for custom purpose. The result code can be set trouth the `Done` Methode.

## Methods

See in the TwinCat 3 Library Manager, in the library. Expand the Command folder and then expand also the `CommandBase` Class to show the methods. By selection of each Method it will show also the explanation.

- Call => The method is called in each cycle to execute the funktional part and the states of the command implementation.
- Init => Will be called when ``stHandshake.bExecute`` changes to ``true`` one cycle and in the same cycle.
- Task => Execute the funktional part of the command implementation in the state running. Will be executed in the same cycle ``stHandshake.bExecute`` changes to ``true`` after the ``Init`` Method. 
- Done => Will be called when ``Running`` state is done and the actual state is ``Done``.
- Cancelled => Will be called at the Cancel state when the execution is finished with the result code ``Cancelled`` or ``stHandshake.bExecute`` changes to ``false`` while ``stHandshake.bBusy`` is ```true``
- CalculateProgress => Can be used to calculate the ``stHandshake.nProgress`` and ``stHandshake.nSubTask``
- Finish => Can be use to finish the ``Task`` Execution with a ``nResultCode``. By using the ``Finish(E_CommandResultCode.Cancelled)`` or ``Finish(E_CommandResultCode.Done)`` calls, to the coresponding states methods ``Done`` and ``Cancelled`` will be called.

## Properties

See in the TwinCat 3 Library Manager, in the library. Expand the Command folder and then expand also the `CommandBase` Class to show the Properties. By selection of each Property it will show also the explanation.

- Progress => Set the Progress from everywhere in the application (Regular from CalculateProgress Method)
- SubTask => Set the SubTask Information from everywhere in the application (Regular from CalculateProgress Method)

## Communication structure to PCS

In the structure `ST_CommandBaseHandshake` is used to communicate with the PCS. The flags `bExecute` and `bBusy` has a Impact to command [state](#States).

| Symbol Name   | Datatype | PLC | PCS | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|---------------|----------|-----|-----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `bExecute`    | BOOL     | RW  | RW  | Will be set to true from the PCS to start the command. When the operation is finished, the PLC will it set to false. On a long running Task, the PCS can reset to false for Abort the operation. The state will change to `Cancelled`. |
| `bBusy`       | BOOL     | RW  | R   | Is True when the command is executing.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `nResultCode` | UINT     | RW  | R   | Shows the operation result code of the commando state. Default Values see `CommandResultCode` Enum Type. It is possible to set other codes!                                                                                            |
| `nProgress`   | BYTE     | RW  | R   | Shows the optional calculated progress. The value is depend on the command implementation. (default can be 0..100%). Only necessary on long running operations.                                                                        |
| `nSubTask`    | UINT     | RW  | R   | Shows the optional state of long running Command Execution. It is possible to set it on own need.                                                                                                                                      |


### Values of CommandResultCode:

```
TYPE E_CommandResultCode :
(
	Init           := 0,
	Running        := 1,
	Done           := 2,
	Cancelled      := 3,
	StartCustom    := 100
) UINT;
END_TYPE
```

## Command initialisation

Sometimes it is helpfull to give some initial values to a generic implementation of a command. For example to set a diferent initial value at multiple command instances with the same behavor. Or set different delay times to a command. This can be done by creating a Method called `FB_init`. In the `VAR_INPUT` section define your inital variables and use it. By declaration the POU you can set it like in the following example:

**Method MyDelayedCommand.FB_init:**
```C
METHOD FB_init : BOOL
VAR_INPUT
	bInitRetains : BOOL; // if TRUE, the retain variables are initialized (warm start / cold start)
	bInCopyCode  : BOOL; // if TRUE, the instance afterwards gets moved into the copy code (online change)
	tDelayTime   : TIME; // Time to deleay the Running state
END_VAR

// initialize the TON fb
fbTonDelay.PT := tDelayTime;
```

**Declaration of the function block MyDelayedCommand:**
```c
fbDelayedCommand1 : MyDelayedCommand(tDelayTime := T#4S);
```

> The technique behind is documented under [Infosys FB_init](https://infosys.beckhoff.com/english.php?content=../content/1033/tc3_plc_intro/5094414603.html&id=6967794353598129051).

## Quick start with your first Command

**Goal:** 
Get the information when the command are executed triggered from the PCS (there is maybe a button). We wanna only a simple impulse when that happen on the output `Q`. 

First add a new POU for the Command that extends the Library Class `CommandBase`.

Basely you have a working command that does nothing important. So we add a Output Parameter `Q`. Also a `bInit` for later use.

```
FUNCTION_BLOCK PUBLIC StartCommand EXTENDS CommandBase
VAR_INPUT
END_VAR
VAR_OUTPUT	
	Q : BOOL;
END_VAR
VAR
	bInit 	: BOOL;
END_VAR
```

Then we ned to now when the Command is executed. For that we add a Method with the Name `Init` to the Class.

```
METHOD PROTECTED Init

// Init Code:
bInit := TRUE;
```

The Next step is to implement to logic Part of the command, to ged the information when the command are executing and to set the the impulse on `Q` when that happens. For this add a Method with the Name `Task` to the Class.

```
METHOD PROTECTED Task : BOOL
	
// Task Code:
// dedect task completed
IF (NOT bInit AND Q) THEN
	// Task comlete;
	Task := SUPER^.Task();;
END_IF

// set output trigger
Q := bInit;

// Reset after 1. cycle
bInit := FALSE;
```

The next step is to Declare the POU on a Global Variable List, in this example it is on `Commands`:

```
VAR_GLOBAL
	StartCommand1		: StartCommand;
END_VAR
```

In the main Program you should now call the Button in a cycle behavior.

```
Commands.StartCommand1.Call();
	
fbTofStartCommand1(
	IN := Commands.StartCommand1.Q,
	PT := T#1S);		
```

Now there is simple Start Button created.

To Test the correctness of the behavior. Set the following internal `SartCommand` flag `Commands.StartCommand1.stHandshake.bExecute` in the online Scope to True.
